# NS_pocket
Python interface for the pocket detection method of the NanoShaper software **with volume ranking** (not native in NanoShaper)

## Requirements

- A locally installed version of NanoShaper https://gitlab.iit.it/SDecherchi/nanoshaper
- Install patchelf:

  &nbsp; e.g. sudo apt install patchelf (Ubuntu)
  
  &nbsp; Use the provided NanoShaper executable by running the install_script within *install binaries* folder.
 
If using the first option, make sure to copy NanoShaper executable in the temp folder

## Instructions

Run: python3 NS_pocketVol.py \<structureName\>.pqr
 
 ### Output
  A "results" folder will be created containing the structure name as a subfolder. 
  In this folder there will be (default output, check options below):
 
  1. \<structureName\>_infoPockets.txt : Information on the volume of each extracted pocket.
  2. p\<number\>_atm.pqr: Structure atoms which contact the pocket (a subset of the original provided PQR).
  
  
  <ins>The pocket number reflects a ranking by volume.</ins>
  
  ### Options:
   - --off : produces also: 3. p\<number\>.off : Triangulated pocket as generated by NanoShaper; 4. \<structureName\>.off file: SES triangulation of the structure as generated by NanoShaper.
   - --boolMap: compact result representation--> 2., 3., 4. are not produced. Instead, all information on putative pocket is contained in a single "\<structureName\>_labelled.pqr" file with dummy integers in the Charge field of the original PQR:0=not associated to any binding site; 1-->n belonging to pocket with rank given by the integer.
   
   
  ### Advanced: 
  Modify the temp/template.prm file for finer control over NanoShaper pocket output
### Attention:
  The structure must be in PQR format
